1. The gall bladder of a mammal has a duct connected to the 
2. The opening of the stoma is controlled by the 
3. Yam is used in this set-up because it
4. Which of the following results is to be expected If the set-up is left for several hours?
5. The eggs of birds contain relatively larger quantities of yolk than those of amphibians and reptiles because
6. In the internal structure of plants, a wide pith in the centre is common to 
7. If a nursing mother is not producing enough milk, her hormonal system is probably deficient in 
8. The type of joint between adjacent bones in the part labelled II is the
9. The bones labelled II are called
10. The breakdown of fats and oils into simpler absorbable compounds is catalyzed by the group of enzymes called
11. The two key cations involved in the action potential of nervous transmissions are
12. The part labelled II is the
13. The process of pollination involves the transfer of pollens from 
14. The anaerobic fermentation of a glucose molecule yields 
15. The function of the part labelled III is to 
16. The sweat gland is the structure labelled 
17. The type of reproduction that is common to both Hydra and yeast is 
18. Epigeal germination of a seed is characterized by 
19. All living cells require water because it 
20. The surface of an alveolus in a mammals is well supplied with tiny blood vessels known as 
21 Nervous control differs from hormonal control in that the former 
22. Identical twins inherit their genes from 
23. Paternity disputes can most accurately be resolved through the use of 
24. Sex-linked genes are located on 
25. In a Mendelian cross of red and white varieties of the four o’clock plant, the F1 generation expresses incomplete dominance by having flowers which are 
26. Insects are considered the most successful among the invertebrates because they 
27. The absence of special food and water-conducting systems restricts the body size in 
28. A peculiar characteristic of mammals is that they 
29. The rods in the retina of the eye are examples of 
30. The larval stage of a mosquito is called 
31. The most common characteristic of the fungal hyphae is the possession of 
32. The part labelled II is responsible for 
33. The endoplasmic reticulum is represented by the part labelled 
34. The function of the long-winged reproductives in a termite colony is to 
35. A plant-like feature in Euglena is the 
36. Which of the following is an example of intraspecific competition? 
37. The spots and stripes of the leopard and tiger are examples of 
38. Rodents gnaw on food with their 
39. An evidence of the relationship between living organisms and their extinct relatives can best be obtained from 
40. Plants survive hot dry conditions by 
41. A  caterpillar and an aphid living in different parts of the same plant can be said to 
42. The progressive loss of energy at each level in a food chain leads to 
43. The soil type that will be most difficult to plough in a wet season is one that is 
44. Which of the zones is likely to be a desert? 
45. High relative humidity will be expected in zones 
46. One adaptation of reptiles to water loss is the presence of 
47. The scarcity of food causes a sudden decrease in population size by 
48. The association between termites and the cellulosedigesting protozoan in their guts is an example of 
49. A state in Nigeria that is most susceptible to desert encroachment is 
50. A farm practice that results in the loss of soil fertility is ~