1.By advertising, a monopolistic competitive firm tries to shift its  
2.Given  than Y = C + I and C = bY where b = 0.8, what is the multiplier?              A.   5    B.   10    C.  4    D.  2
3. The role of the Central Bank in the economic development of Nigeria is to A. give short-and medium-term loans to the public B. give financial and technical advice to customers C. use the cheques and bank drafts to facilitate business transactions D. maintain a stable price system
4. The primary function of non-bank financial institutions is to A. manage investment portfolios for government B. mobilize saving for investment C. grant loans to banks D. receive deposits from  banks
5. At the maximum point of the total product curve of a firm, marginal revenue is A   decreasing   B. increasing  C. constant  D.  zero
6. In a n open economy, the GNP is measured as A.  C+I+G+X    B. C+I+G+(X-M)   C.  C+I+G+M  D.  C+I+G
7.The diagram  above represents the short-run position of a monopolist.  The profit-maximizing output is A.   Q3 B.  Q4 C.   Q1 D.  Q2
8. The capital market provides business firm with the avenue to A.   lease capital equipment B. obtain long-term funds C. obtain short-term fundsD.purchase capital equipment
9. Which of the financial institution is charged with the formulation of monetary policies in Nigeria? A. The Central Bank of Nigeria B. The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation C. The Abuja Commodity Exchange D. The Lagos Stock Exchange
10. GDP differs from GNP because GDP A. is inclusive of depreciation B. emphasizes the final goods and services C. produced within the country at a particular period D. emphasizes the market value of all final goods and services produced by nationals
11. The distinction between perfect competition and                  monopolistic competition is that the latter is characterized by A. a single market price B. many buyers and sellers C. product differentiation D. homogeneity of product
12.        The downstream activities of oil companies in Nigeria involve A. refining and distribution B. prospecting and drilling C. Off-shore drilling D. Management of spillage and pollution
13. The movement of goods and services from the products to the consumers is refereed to as A. external trade B.    the distribution chain C. the circular flowD.     consumption
14.       The purpose of conducting a census is to enable a country to A. plan her capital inflow and outflow B. determine the growth rate of population C. determine the optimum level of population D. plan her growth and development
15. A major cause of the slow pace of industrialization in Nigeria is inadequate A.     raw materials B.   landmass C. skilled labour D.     communal labour
16. The maximum wage legislation seeks to A. fix wages above the equilibrium wage rate B. set wages below the equilibrium wage rate C. deter employers from exploiting their employees D. ensure an upper limit to the wages payable
17. The marketing of agricultural commodities in Nigeria is hampered by A. lack of adequate storage facilities B. the existence of farmers’ associations C. the existence of commodity exchange D. the abolition of ,arketing boards.
18. Import duty concessions on industrial inputs directly benefit the A. consumers  B.external sector  C. commercial sector D.  manufacturers
19. The labour force in Nigeria falls between the ages of A. 18 and 45     B. 18 and 55  C.18 and 60  D. 18 and 30
20. Government’s involvement in agricultural business in Nigeria’s is most manifested in the A. establishment of farm settlements in each state of the federation B. establishment of credit guarantee schemes for small-scale farmers C. formation of farmers’ cooperative socities D. procurement and distribution of fertilizers
21. The difference between birth and death rates of a given population is referred to as the A. mortality rate  B. fertility rate C.natural growth rate D.  linear growth rate
22. Fiscal policy is the government’s plan to control aggregate demand by manipulating A. the demand and supply of money B. revenue and expenditure C. tastes and preferences of consumers D, the structure of production and employment
23. A country is said to have absolute advantage when she               A.has a higher opportunity cost in the production of a good B.can sell to oother countries without buying from them C.can produce more of any good with fewer resources D.has a lower opportunity cost in the production of a good.
24. The European Union was formed to promote free trade within member nations A. Promote free trade within members nation. B.Promote economic integration in non-member countries C. Assist countries to achieve their economic goals D. Finance development projects in member nations. 25. if budget deficits are financed by borrowing, the crowding-out effects can be offset by an increase in A. government expenditure  B. savings C.interest rates D. exchange rates
26. When the importation of a commodity is limited to a definite quantity, the trade control means used isknown as A. exchange control B. tax relief C. devaluation D. quotas
27. The excess of aggregate expenditure over full emploment level of output is referred to as A. GNP gap B. Deflationary gap C. Inflationary gap D. recessionary gap
28. The tax levied on goods and services at each stage of production is A. surfax B. VAT  C. Ad valorem tax D. PAYE
29. The number of shareholders in a private limited liability company ranges from A. two to sevenB. two to three C. two to fifty D.  two to twenty
30. A major reason for having national development plan is to A. ensure efficient use of available resources B. involve people in national programmes C. make government spend more on production D. ensure that more citizens are involved in planning
31. The difference between payments and receipts for visible trade is called A.  bilateral trade B. current balance C.balance of payment D.  balance of trade
32. One of the cause of the present high rate of inflation in Nigeria is A.Increasing budget surplus  B. Increasing factors costs C. Exchange rate appreciation  D. High capacity utilization
33. The final stage in the production process of any commodity involves its movement from the A.  retailer to the wholesaler B. producer to the wholesaler C.  retailer to the consumer D. wholesaler to the retailer
34. A change in demand for a normal good means A. a shift in the demand curve B. a change in the price elasticity C. the demand changes as price changes D. a movement along a given demand curve
35.
In the diagram above, ST is the budget line while I.II and III represent indifference curves.  A rational consumer will choose to consume at point A. M  B.  J   C.   K  D.  L
36. In order to increase revenue, the seller of a commodity whose demand is fairly elastic is advised to A.  increase priceB.  reduce outpur C.  reduce price D.  retain price
37. In any set of data, the median represent the A. value that is most representative of the data B. mid-position when the values are arranged in ascending or descending order C. mid-position when the values are arranged randomly D. difference between the highest and the lowest values when arranged ascending order.
38. Combination) Beans (Unit) Rice (Unit) K 15 19 L 20 17 M 24 16
            The table above shows the combinations of beans and            rice that can be purchased by a consumer.
               The opportunity cost of moving from K to L is A.   2 units of rice  B.  5 units of beans  C. 17 units of rice D.  20 units of beans
39. One of the assumption of ordinary utility in consumer behaviour is that A. consumer are irrational B. marginal utility rises contionously C. utility is measurable D. utility can only be ranked
40. A large standard deviation is an indication of A. the size of the sample B. a wide spread around the mean C. a wide difference between the mean and the mode D. the difference between teh highest and the lowest values.
41. A m ajor characteristics of a mixed economy is that A. economic decisions are emade by both the rich andthe poor B. both primary and secondary production are undertaken C. the federal and the state governments undertake joint projects D. economic activties are undertakenby both the public and private sectors
42. Given the cost function C = 160 + 36Q, what is teh average cost at 20 units of output? A. N720 B. N216.00 C. N44.00 D. N880.00
43. If an increase in the p rice of good X leads to an increase in the supply of good Y, X and Y are said to be A. jointly supplied B. competitive C. composite D. jointly demanded
44.
The diagram above shows the shifts in both demand and supply curves.  What is the new equilibrium point after the shifts? A. E3 B. E1 C. E4 D. E2
45. Use the diagram below to answer questions 45 and 46
45. When there is a change fron T to N, it implies that A. supply has increased B. quantity supplied has increased C. quantity demanded has i ncreased D. price has fallen
46., A movement from M to T implies that there has been A. a decrease in supply B. an increase in demand C. a decrease in price D. an increase in price
47. A  necessary condition for specialisataion in an economy is the existence of A. a regulated market B. a competitive market C. a medium of exchange D. adequate capital
48. A firm operating at full capacity will experience rising short-run totall costs when A. prices of its variable inputs rise B. prices of its variable inputs fall C. there is a change in m anagement D. labour productivity increases
49. In a textile factory, teh cost of cotton used is a typical example of A.  an average cost B.  a variable  cost C.  a total cost D.  a fixed cost
50. A black market can occur when A. supply is excess of deman B. consumption of the commomdity is restricted C. prices are set by government above the equilibrium D. prices are set by government below the equilibrium
